The next thing I want to do is, I want to
talk about fetching data from the API.
So lets take a look, so if we go to
our display, base display component,
this is where we are using the browser
fetch API in order to get data.
Now here is the thing though,
that means this only works in the browser.
And one of the things that nuxt offers is
the ability to do things like server side
rendering, static site generation.
But, this means that if it tries to run
your code inside of a node environment,
this is going to break.
So, how do we get around this?
Well, basically, there are composable
here as you might have guess,
that help us with this very thing.
So, the one that I'm gonna show you first
is actually gonna be called useAsyncData.
And so useAsyncData is something
that it takes two framers.
One, it takes a key of
what is gonna be called.
So in this particular case, we can just
say that, we'll make it a dynamic key.
Because basically,
if you think of it like this,
nuxt is trying to perform really figure
out what kind of queries there are.
And so, if you don't give it a key,
sometimes it identifies the same one,
remembering some problems.
So let's go ahead and say like this.
We'll call that query, just like that.
That looks good.
And then, what you get is a callback
function as a second argument.
And so inside of here,
let me go ahead and close that off.
All right.
Inside of here, this is where you get
access to something called $fetch.
And this is like their polyfill version
of like, if you're on the client side,
it'll use a normal fetch.
But, if you're on the node side,
it also then switches over to basically,
the node fetch, or whatever they
decide underneath the hood to use.
And so we save this something is off.
Nope that looks, no, no, there we go.
There we go.
Now it's indenting correctly, okay.
So as you can see here, this now
makes a pretty big difference because
now we actually have the ability
to actually fetch the data,
whether it's on the server side,
or on the client side.
We go ahead and refresh.
This is good.
Let's go inside of my dues.
And then okay, so something's not working.
What is going on?
Well, it's saying response
to JSON is not a function.
Let's see what's dive.
Let's dive a little bit down in that.
So we're gonna do here is after
it fetches, I need to see then.
Let's log what actually comes back, so
in this case we're gonna
comment out this part as well.
And let's see what happens.
So as you can see, What's going on?
Well, the reason why response to
JSON doesn't need to happen is
because search basically,
nuxts team knows.
Every time you're fetching data back,
you don't want it as a string,
you want it as JSON.
So let's save you that extra and
JSON file it for you when you get it back.
So in other words, what we can do then
is basically let's grab this line,
swap it in, omit the thing, but
then this is just the response.
And then just like that.
Now, if we refresh, there you go.
Everything is working.
And so the difference now is that
if we go inside of our nuxt,
and we run NPM run build,
we'll see that we get
a brand new directory that previously
we didn't see, which is dot output.
And so once again, just as a reminder,
this is usually because something
is generating this folder.
Not something for you to touch and
mess around with.
But this is basically what
you'll usually be serving.
And so as you can see here,
there's a public folder in here.
And there's a bunch of things that
are co chunked, which is nice.
And Server index chunks.
Yep.
Nitro Client.
Okay, so
basically what it done is broken it up
into a bunch of modules that makes it
easier for basically performance loading
purposes, as far as knowing what to load.
But what I wanna do actually real quick,
that I wanna see if we can make happen,
is NPM run generate.
So the difference between the generate and
the build commands is that,
the generate command is more for
basic static building.
And build is the build output that
you're usually deploy onto a server.
And that's it actually gets served up.
And so it's fine,
looks like there is an error,
because we're actually seeing some stuff
being not found, but that's totally fine.
And we can deal with that later.
But, you can see now that on the index,
we have our index page, and you see that,
this is like our Google Fonts
stuff that we had earlier.
But then, if we go into display,
we go into todos and we go into index.
You'll see now that.
They actually have data here as far as
todos queries and things and so on.
It's bundled and split it out, but
you start to see, like this is one of
the advantages of using their native
fetch tools is because now we're getting
the ability to see benefits on the server
side as well as the client side.
And to be honest when it
comes to what is inside,
the bill, that could be an entire
workshop in it of itself.
So this is more of to give
you a cursory glance.
And so that in the future as you're
starting to decide what makes the most
sense for your app, and the requirements.
Then you can decide accordingly like,
okay yeah,
I do want it to be server side rendered,
or I want it to be statically generated.
And just figuring it out from there.
Does that make sense?
Cool.
The other thing that you should know about
todo, is that this whole thing, right?
Might feel a lot, but what you can do
in addition is, and this is the part
that's a little confusing right now as
the ecosystem stabilizes, is that there's
actually a useFetch composable,
that actually simplifies this a lot.
So basically becomes this,
I believe, response.
So useFetch is basically like syntactic
sugar that wraps around all of that.
Cuz the useAsyncData
define a key callback.
$fetch is a lot of primitives
to know about and to do.
So useFetch is an alternative.
Now, which one will become
the best practice and
stuff still remains to be seen?
So that's something to consider
as far as things to use, but
the useasyncData is
the key one to know about,
cuz that's the core thing around
how a lot of things are built.
And so from there,
you'll have the chance it started,
just playing around with things and
figuring that out.
But, I know that server-side
rendering is a topic that still can
be rather complex for people to deal with.
Because a lot of times
as front-end developers,
we don't necessarily touch
those sort of things.
It's mainly focusing on the client side
things, but I wanted to give you a peek
into what nuxt starts to provide for
you as a result of that.
There are obviously a lot of other
things that come with it, but one of
the questions that was asked in the chat
earlier was around the idea of LAZY Fetch.
And so one of the things they did add is
that if you prepend something with LAZY,
like LAZY Fetch, for example.
It'll basically prevent the page
from being blocked from rendering.
Because otherwise, right?
Like most [INAUDIBLE] Calls, it's
waiting for it to get complete the call,
then renders out the entire page.
And so, the LAZY keyword
throughout the nuxt library,
can actually be used to stop
the patron blocked entirely.
So you can even do LAZY components for
example two.
Where, don't wait for this component to
load before you show me the homepage, just
show me the thing and then that's fine,
blinking the component when it comes.
And so it's a little ergonomics like this
that are currently being experimented
with, inside of the nuxt API in order
to make our lives a little bit easier.
But as they're being standardized,
I kinda wanna refrain from saying
anything is best practice just yet.
And we'll kinda see how
the ecosystem grows, yeah,
once that suite continues to
pervade throughout the ecosystem.